start with that breaking news from the
Middle East because hundreds of
Hezbollah Fighters have been injured by
their communication devices exploding
across Lebanon what's been described as
an unprecedented hostile act Iran's
ambassador to Lebanon is reported to
have been among those affected well let
me just show you the moment that one
pager exploded in a supermarket in
bayout there you see people rushing away
the explosion in the foreground
apparently it was in a bag been carried
by a man and that just one of the
locations and similar things have been
reported in so many different parts of
Lebanon in Beirut in southern Lebanon
other videos posted online show people
with injuries some of them really severe
ambulances have been seen rushing
through the southern suburbs of Beirut
to Hezbollah stronghold lebanon's Health
Ministry has called on staff to report
to hospitals and for people to donate
blood it said anyone with a pager should
immediately discarded unnamed security
officials say the pages were hacked by
Israel which hasn't commented Hezbollah
official called it the biggest security
breach suffered by the group well with
me in the studio is our security
correspondent Frank Gardner and Frank
these still the the early details of
this it was first being reported uh less
than two hours ago take me through first
of all what we know sure I mean it's
extraordinary this um almost
unprecedented I can't think of any case
where you've got a simultaneous almost
simultaneous explosion of so many
personal devices now these were not
mobile phones they were Pages which
sounds very 20th century but the reason
for that is that when the Gaza War uh or
conflict began after October 7th
massacre in southern Israel um an order
went out by hasbalah to its people not
to use mobile phones in case they were
sabotaged and the reason for that is
there's a bit of History here is that
back
in January 1996 somebody called Yahya
aesh who was known as El mandis the the
engineer he was the chief bomb maker for
Hamas and he was assassinated by shinb
Israeli intelligence with an exploding
mobile phone so people have always been
a bit wary of those and what H yet what
happened this afternoon was the almost
simultaneous detonation of these devices
these pages that had been used by
hundreds of Hezbollah not just Fighters
but Medics officials and others they
appear to have been tampered with at
some stage they've been ordered
relatively recently in some cases only
received with the last few days Israel
is not commenting on who might have been
behind it Frank before I ask you the
next question I want to put on the
screen again just that video of one of
the explosions because you were just
describing how there are so many blasts
and there you see it in the in the
foreground uh an explosion in a bag you
mentioned that it wasn't a mobile phone
it was Pages I'm reading here and it's
been quoted three security sources
talking to Reuters saying that the pages
uh that were detonated were the latest
model brought in by Hezbollah in recent
months so exactly as you're saying these
are all things that they had purchased
in the last few weeks yeah and that they
thought that they were doing the safest
option um interestingly these devices
are don't appear to be designed to be
lethal so they've they've um inflicted
some very n wounds some injuries on
people many of whom are in civilian
dress now they may or may not work for
Hezbollah they may be bystanders but you
know there's there are hundreds of
wounded have' been brought to hospitals
across Lebanon mainly in the southern
suburbs of dya in beut um but they are
for the most part low charge so you know
not packing enough to actually kill
somebody in the vast majority of cases
but to send a very strong message and
let's not forget that this comes on the
same day that Israel has extended its
War aims to include expelling Hezbollah
basically from the border so the low
grade ongoing conflict that Israel has
with Lebanon on the sou on that border
the joint border they've got has driven
roughly 60,000 Israelis away from their
homes and businesses on the Israeli side
of the Border a bigger number than that
on the Lebanese side hundreds of
casualties in total on both sides and
there's a lot of political pressure on
Israel's cabinet to deal with this once
and for all to deal with the problem of
Hezbollah firing rockets and drones and
missiles across that border they want to
push Hezbollah north of What's called
the Lani river which is technically at
the end of the 2006 War that's where it
was supposed to have stayed but they've
crept South and that's why there is this
ongoing exchange of fire Frank before I
ask you the next question let me just
show you the live pictures from one of
those medical centers that
we have pictures coming into us from
bayroot because large amounts of people
around one of those Hospital centers
there you can see just scores of people
waiting I suppose for updates and some
of the injured being taken to Medical
establishments like that now it is being
reported by reuter that Iran's
ambassador to Lebanon is one of those
injured you were making the point in
terms of the whole backdrop to this but
the fear has always been about a wider
war between Hezbollah and Israel
alongside that war that's already going
on with Hamas in Gaza this adds to all
of those fears doesn't it it does and
remember that uh it wasn't that long ago
on I think it was July the 30th that
Israel admitted assassinating somebody
called f shukar in the southern suburbs
very close to where most of this is
concentrated Southern subur was a beut
and he was a senior commander in
Hezbollah he was assassinated with a
Precision drone strike that hit him in a
building Israel um openly admitted it
that was followed of course a day later
by the assassination of Ismael hania in
Teran which Israel has not uh owned up
to but everybody assumes it was them he
was the political leader of Hamas so
after that hasbalah vowed Revenge um the
have there was a sort of flurry of
rockets from Hezbollah and Hezbollah
after that said right score settled for
now um this I think regardless of the
fact that Israel hasn't commented on it
is going to be laid at the door of shinb
or mosad Israel's intelligence agencies
Hezbollah will expect to demand some
kind of retaliation some sort of Revenge
um and Iran of course will probably
support them at least verbally and
diplomatically uh and possibly even with
Supply further weapons because Hezbollah
are the most powerful non-state military
force in the Middle East they are a
force to be reckoned with they've got a
massive arsenal of rockets which is sort
of poised should they choose to launch
them at Israel now the retaliation would
decimate Lebanon the Lebanese are saying
please don't our economy is on Dar State
we're on our knees please don't up the
war with Israel anymore than it is
already but that's why it's a very
febrile tense atmosphere and you're
right something like this could tip it
over the edge Frank Gardner thanks very
much for that analysis